With rapid decarbonization goals and ambitious urban electrification targets, the electric power grid is undergoing unprecedented changes. SCALE Lab is at the forefront of addressing the new requirements for improved efficiency, operational flexibility, and resilience in response to the grid’s changing nature and extreme weather events. Our mission is to solve the ever-growing problem of providing a resilient, adaptable, and economically viable power supply with distributed generation resources. We focus on scalable methods that integrate model and data information to provide better decision support for increasingly complex power grids.

The proliferation of distributed energy resources and flexible loads is pushing the control and operational requirements of the grid to the edge, thus significantly increasing the scale and complexity of grid operations. These grid-edge resources also hold the potential to support grid resilience in the aftermath of extreme weather events, which are impacting grid more often and with higher severity. Effective use of grid-edge resources to support decarbonization goals and resilience necessitates advances in modeling, analysis, and optimization of emerging electric power networks. SCLAE lab specializes in the analytics required for the effective integration and coordination of controllable grid-edge resources such as photovoltaics (PVs), electric vehicles (EVs), and grid-interactive efficient buildings (GEBs). Our methodological contributions are situated at the intersection of mathematical optimization techniques, physics-informed machine-learning, and cyber-physical electric power distribution systems. For a comprehensive information on the ongoing and past projects, kindly refer to Projects section.
